1. Write a Python program to read an entire text file.


2. Write a Python program to read first n lines of a file.


3. Write a Python program to append text to a file and display the text.


4. Write a Python program to read last n lines of a file.


5. Write a Python program to read a file line by line and store it into a list.

Advanced:

Q. write a program which will generate 3 folders named 'apple', 'banana', and 'mango'. In every folder add 100 empty files. Names of file should be in format '<folder_name>_<index>.bmp'. For example in 'mango' folder file name will be 'mango_1.bmp','mango_2.bmp', etc

Q. Write python program to read all files created by above program. Store names of files and absolute path of file in a dictionary. 

Q. Write python program to read all files created by above program. Store names of files and category of file in a dictionary. Category of file is same as name of the folder of the file. For example 
{mango_2.bmp':'mango', 'apple_100.bmp':'apple', 'banana_89.bmp':'banana'}

Extra::



6. Write a Python program to read a file line by line store it into a variable.


7. Write a Python program to read a file line by line store it into an array.


8. Write a python program to find the longest words.


9. Write a Python program to count the number of lines in a text file.


10. Write a Python program to count the frequency of words in a file.


11. Write a Python program to get the file size of a plain file.


12. Write a Python program to write a list to a file.


13. Write a Python program to copy the contents of a file to another file .


14. Write a Python program to combine each line from first file with the corresponding line in second file.


15. Write a Python program to read a random line from a file.


16. Write a Python program to assess if a file is closed or not.


17. Write a Python program to remove newline characters from a file.


18. Write a Python program that takes a text file as input and returns the number of words of a given text file.
Note: Some words can be separated by a comma with no space.


19. Write a Python program to extract characters from various text files and puts them into a list.


20. Write a Python program to generate 26 text files named A.txt, B.txt, and so on up to Z.txt.


21. Write a Python program to create a file where all letters of English alphabet are listed by specified number of letters on each line.
